19/07/2016 00:02:29	Jakub Jarosz	jakub.jarosz@postpro.net	Infrastructure Engineer	Jakub Jarosz is working as an infrastructure engineer. His interests include cloud computing, Linux containers and automation. He has been using Python an Jython for almost ten years, mainly for test and infrastructure automation. He describes himself as a Pythonista with DevOps mindset.	I've used Python on-and-off over several years	PyCon Ireland 2012 - "Embracing Python for Software Testing", Python Ireland Meetups: "MultiMechanize - Performance Test Framework", "Testing Erlang Cluster using Python", "Data Driven Integration Testing"	twitter: @qba73	General Python or Python based Frameworks	"Testing Your Infrastructure as Code with Python."	DevOps	"
Infrastructure as code means writing code to manage configurations, automate provisioning of the infrastructure components and software deployment processes. It involves using tested and proven software development practices like using version control systems, unit and acceptance testing (TDD) and continues integration pipelines. The talk will focus on Python and pytest based solutions used for testing infrastructure code. During the talk we will demonstrate a simple CI pipeline configured with GitLabCI, Hashicorp tools: Packer and Terraform, and write and run infrastructure tests in Python."	Beginner	An introduction into a commonly used third-party technology. (good for beginners)	30 Mins	no	Laptop									
20/07/2016 21:25:26	Declan McHugh	declan.mchugh@gmail.com	Solution Architect	"I am a Solution Architect for Retail Analytics at Bank of Ireland, currently working on implementing Bank of Ireland's Cloud Azure Data solution along as other projects.

After travelling South America for a short time before spent 10 more years in Software, Data and Analytics working in Telecoms and Consultancy. When I moved to IBM he found an opportunity to get involved in Analytic projects. At this point he began his Masters. While studying he also gained experience in a couple of Big Data Analytic solutions."	I've used Python on-and-off over several years	No	https://ie.linkedin.com/in/declan-mchugh-6b84ba6	General Python or Python based Frameworks	Traffic Analysis, Open Data and the Python Framework	Data Science	"The talk will discuss how Python was used for big data, visualization and data mining techniques to predict and analyse traffic. The objective is to understand
Traffic patterns in Dublin City. The prediction model was used as an estimator to identify unusual traffic patterns. The generic model was designed using data mining techniques, multivariate regression algorithms, ARIMA and visually correlated with real-time traffic tweets. Using the prediction model and tweet event detection the result is a high-performance web application containing over 500,000,000,000 traffic observations that produce analytical dashboard providing traffic prediction and analysis."	Intermediate	An insight into the Python ecosystem. (good for everyone)	30 Mins	Early	Laptop / Powerpoint									
21/07/2016 08:43:29	Harshul Jain	harshulrobo@gmail.com	Python Freelancer	"I am a Professional Pythonista based out in India with good knowledge in writing Pythonic APIs, Web scrapping, web Back end development, Prototyping DSP algorithms and Integrating Hardware with Python. I love walking through the source codes and so I love contributing on open source projects. 

https://github.com/harshul1610"	I've used Python a lot, just recently	Yes, I have given a talk at PyDelhi Meetup on "Machine learning an algorithm Perspective"	https://www.harshuljain.in	General Python or Python based Frameworks	Prototyping DSP Algorithms using ThinkDSP Python Module	Rapid Application Prototyping	"While working with the hardware we start by synthesizing the Analog Signals from sensors and then we convert them into Digital signals. These Digital signals are fed to Digital signal processing(DSP) Algorithms for getting results out of heavy computations. But as the first step of testing these DSP Algorithms, we start by prototyping them. we store Digital signals in form of files, and use python to build algorithms to operate on those files and aah! we get the results. We might be using great libraries in python which have good computation powers but prototyping using them can be time consuming. Even Numpy, Scipy, Sympy, Pandas take a lot to write one good code. But we are Python developers and we have to find our way out.so to your rescue, comes Thinkdsp. Prototyping using Thinkdsp makes things easier and faster with just few lines of code and so in this talk i will be discussing on how Thinkdsp can be used for various digital signal processing operations.

Key Takeaways:
1. Good understanding on various DSP operations.
2. knowledge on how to prototype fast in field of DSP.
3. How I grabbed the funding for my startup using this library."	Intermediate	An introduction into some commonly used parts of Python. (good for beginners), An introduction into a commonly used third-party technology. (good for beginners), An introduction into a niche area of Python or a niche library/technology., A detailed look at a niche area of Python.	30 Mins	No	Laptop Lenovo G5070									
23/07/2016 22:15:53	Tariq Rashid	tariq.rashid50@gmail.com	Digital & Technology Strategy in UK Government	"I've had fun with open source across diverse areas as astrophysics, civil energy, security appliances, performance tuning and numerical computing in finance, web sentiment mining and telecoms grade networking. More recently I've particularly enjoyed helping the UK government break down barriers to open source, modernising security, and used some cool technologies for public good.

Right now I'm enjoying making technology and maths accessible to as many people as possible - eg by teaching Python to complete beginners, and helping make neural networks understandable (author of Amazon #1 Best Seller).

I've recently become a co-organiser of the London Python meetup group, and my plan is to broaden the topics covered and the diversity of the community."	I've used Python on-and-off over several years	I speak regularly in London at meetups (not just on Python). Examples include PyData London 2016, and EuroPython 2016 (because they provided financial aid).	@postenterprise	General Data Science	A Gentle Introduction to Neural Networks (with Python)	neural networks, python, beginners, maths, deep learning, machine learning, data science	"There is huge interest in neural networks right now - they are the core of deep learning which recently has been in the news (self driving cars, health data Google beating world Go champion), and a key tool for data scientists, skills sought by more and more organisations to remain competitive.

They're also fun to play with!

This talk presents a very gentle introduction to neural networks, and how to make your own with Python.

It is deliberately designed to be accessible to everyone - including anyone with no expertise in mathematics, computer science or Python.

After this session you should have an intuitive understanding of what neural networks are and how they work, how they were inspired by nature, and what you can do with them. If you can program in Python (beginner to intermediate), you will see how you could make your own with Python and numpy.

Part 1 - Ideas: - the search for AI, hard problems for computers easy fro humans - learning from examples (simple classifier) - biologically inspired neurons and networks - training a neural network - the back propagation breakthrough - matrix ways of working (good for computers)

Part 2 - Python: - Python is easy, and everywhere - Python notebooks - the MNIST data set - a very simple neural network class - focus on concise and efficient matrix calculations with bumpy - 97.5% accuracy recognising handwritten numbers - with just a few lines of code!

Part 3 - Live demo! .. and Q&A

"	Beginner	Making a technical topic simple and accessible - a topic which attracts lots of interest (neural networks, data science)	45 - 50 Mins	1 hour if possible - but 45-50 is ok. If you have a 1.5 hour slot free - I can make the talk even more gentle and useful.	Just my laptop to project into a screen. Wifi access would be good.									
