01/08/2016 06:11:59	Hanneli Tavante	hannelita@gmail.com	Software Developer	Hanneli is a software developer. With experience in Java, C++ and Ruby, she works mostly with backend development and project architecture.  She contributes to some open source projects and organises Cassandra, Science and Rust meetups in Sao Paulo. She enjoys spreading knowledge and learning new topics in conferences around the globe. She also likes coffee, GIFs, Lego and Mathematics.	I've used Python on-and-off over several years	I have spoken in Rupy conference in Brazil in 2012 and 2013. I'll speak in Python Brazil 2016 as well (in October) 	https://twitter.com/hannelita	General Python or Python based Frameworks	From documents to graphs with Python	Databases and Python	Have you ever felt that you wanted to have date into your MongoDB documents into a graph database like Neo4j? Manual replication of the information on MongoDB to Neo4j would be a little painful to be done, so this talk will present a tool, written in Python, that smoothly performs this sync to you, giving you the best of Documents and Graphs.	Intermediate	An introduction into a niche area of Python or a niche library/technology., A detailed look at a niche library/technology.	30 Mins		Default projector. A white board would be helpful as well! (not required) 									
01/08/2016 06:17:52	Hanneli Tavante	hannelita@gmail.com	Software Developer	Hanneli is a software developer. With experience in Java, C++ and Ruby, she works mostly with backend development and project architecture.  She contributes to some open source projects and organises Cassandra, Science and Rust meetups in Sao Paulo. She enjoys spreading knowledge and learning new topics in conferences around the globe. She also likes coffee, GIFs, Lego and Mathematics.	I've used Python on-and-off over several years	"I have spoken in Rupy conference in Brazil in 2012 and 2013. I'll speak in Python Brazil 2016 as well (in October) 
"	https://twitter.com/hannelita	General Data Science	Apache Cassandra with Python - an Introduction	Databases and Python	This talk will provide general uses cases, Cassandra architecture, benefits, tools and integration with existing tools written in Python, such as CCM and Cassandra Python Driver. Topics: Cassandra architecture, reasons to adopt it, writing and reading data in Cassandra, existing tools, getting started in Python and data modelling.	Beginner	An introduction into a commonly used third-party technology. (good for beginners), A detailed look at a niche library/technology.	45 - 50 Mins											
01/08/2016 14:57:44	Iván	Palomares Carrascosa	Senior Engineer	I am Computer Science PhD and currently of Decision Support Systems in the Centre for Secure Information Technologies, CSIT (Queen's University Belfast). I currently work on data analytics and data-driven decision support techniques combined with AI approaches, in cybersecurity scenarios. Very interested in expanding my background on Data Science directions, particularly aiming at their integrations with intelligent systems and other AI models. I am currently Editor of the Springer book "Data Analytics and Decision Support for Cybersecurity", to be released 2017. Deep experience in giving talks in international scientific conferences, workshops and research seminars.	I've used Python a lot, just recently	No	https://www.linkedin.com/m/profile/ACoAAAVvdM4Bxz5lPLX2ZYStNlhLeKAbwfz_eAk/	Python Data Science	Python and Spark for Security Data Analytics: Scenarios and Challenges	data science, AI, decision support, cybersecurity, Spark	This talk aims at providing an insight into using Python for large-scale data processing and analytics with Apache Spark, a Hadoop-friendly Big Data engine. It will cover the transition from traditional machine learning/data mining techniques to their "Big Data" counterpart for scalable, fault-tolerant computing. Example scenarios related to cybersecurity research at CSIT (Queen's University Belfast) will be presented to illustrate the joint use of Python with Spark, and ongoing challenges will be also discussed.	Intermediate	An introduction into a commonly used third-party technology. (good for beginners), An introduction into a niche area of Python or a niche library/technology., An insight into the Python ecosystem. (good for everyone), An insight into Python for research focused on Big Data Analytics	30 Mins		Can bring own laptop if required.									
01/08/2016 15:16:27	Oguz Albayrak	oguzalba@gmail.com	Software Engineer	Python Developer, DevOps at Demonware	I've used Python a lot, for several years	Yes, i made a presentation about CPython internals	https://www.linkedin.com/in/halbayrak	CPython	Getting Familiar With Internals of CPython	How CPython works	"(workshop)
We will start with writing a basic interpreter for an easily parseable language, converting it into stack machine instructions. We will also write a very basic stack machine. After that we will start playing with CPython dis module to see how it works. We will implement a basic stack machine for python instructions. Code of CPython will be read and various objects-functions will be played with"	Intermediate	An introduction into some commonly used parts of Python. (good for beginners), A detailed look at a niche area of Python.	3 hours		Projector and a classroom									
