01/08/2016 14:57:44	Iván	Palomares Carrascosa	Senior Engineer	I am Computer Science PhD and currently of Decision Support Systems in the Centre for Secure Information Technologies, CSIT (Queen's University Belfast). I currently work on data analytics and data-driven decision support techniques combined with AI approaches, in cybersecurity scenarios. Very interested in expanding my background on Data Science directions, particularly aiming at their integrations with intelligent systems and other AI models. I am currently Editor of the Springer book "Data Analytics and Decision Support for Cybersecurity", to be released 2017. Deep experience in giving talks in international scientific conferences, workshops and research seminars.	I've used Python a lot, just recently	No	https://www.linkedin.com/m/profile/ACoAAAVvdM4Bxz5lPLX2ZYStNlhLeKAbwfz_eAk/	Python Data Science	Python and Spark for Security Data Analytics: Scenarios and Challenges	data science, AI, decision support, cybersecurity, Spark	This talk aims at providing an insight into using Python for large-scale data processing and analytics with Apache Spark, a Hadoop-friendly Big Data engine. It will cover the transition from traditional machine learning/data mining techniques to their "Big Data" counterpart for scalable, fault-tolerant computing. Example scenarios related to cybersecurity research at CSIT (Queen's University Belfast) will be presented to illustrate the joint use of Python with Spark, and ongoing challenges will be also discussed.	Intermediate	An introduction into a commonly used third-party technology. (good for beginners), An introduction into a niche area of Python or a niche library/technology., An insight into the Python ecosystem. (good for everyone), An insight into Python for research focused on Big Data Analytics	30 Mins		Can bring own laptop if required.									
